Multiple elaborations about template literal semantics (#18976)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/string/raw/index.md

// You can confirm this by checking the .length property
// of the string.

const name = 'Bob';
String.raw`Hi\n${name}!`;
// 'Hi\\nBob!', substitutions are processed.

String.raw`Hi \${name}!`;
// 'Hi \\${name}!', the dollar sign is escaped; there's no interpolation.
```

### Building an identity tag

> Many toolings give special treatments to literals tagged by a particular name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many tools give special treatment to literals tagged by a particular name.
```
…or else “Various tooling gives”. But to me at least, using _“tools”_ in cases like this is more concrete.

Author: That sounds better

```js
// Some formatters will format this literal's content as HTML
const doc = html`<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Hello</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>Hello world!</h1>
  </body>
</html>
`;
```

One might naïvely implement the `html` tag as:

```js
const html = String.raw;
```

This, in fact, works for the case above. However, because `String.raw` would concatenate the _raw_ string literals instead of the "cooked" ones, escape sequences would not be processed.

```js
const doc = html`<canvas>\n</canvas>`;
// "<canvas>\\n</canvas>"
```

This may not be what you want for a "true identity" tag, where the tag is purely for markup and doesn't change the literal's value. In this case, you can create a custom tag and pass the "cooked" (i.e. escape sequences are processed) literal array to `String.raw`, pretending they are raw strings.

```js
const html = (strings, ...values) => String.raw({ raw: strings }, ...values);
// Some formatters will format this literal's content as HTML
const doc = html`<canvas>\n</canvas>`;
// "<canvas>\n</canvas>"; the "\n" becomes a line break
```

> Notice the first argument is an object with a `raw` property, whose value is an array-like (with a `length` property and integer indexes) representing the separated strings in the template literal. The rest of the arguments are the substitutions. Since the `raw` value can be any array-like, it can even be a string! For example, `'test'` is treated as `['t', 'e', 's', 't']`. The following is equivalent to `` `t${0}e${1}s${2}t` ``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the first argument is an object with a `raw` property, whose value is an array-like object (with a `length` property and integer indexes) representing the separated strings in the template literal. The rest of the arguments are the substitutions. Since the `raw` value can be any array-like object, it can even be a string! For example, `'test'` is treated as `['t', 'e', 's', 't']`. The following is equivalent to `` `t${0}e${1}s${2}t` ``:
```
I don’t feel strongly about this one, but at least _“array-like object”_ doesn’t seem wrong — and given that _“array-like”_ on its own is technically an adjective. But if in general usage in the community, _”array-like”_ has graduated into being a noun such that _”an array-like”_ sounds OK to a lot of readers, then I think it’s fine to keep it that way.

Author: "Array-like" is certainly used like a noun a lot, but I don't have strong opinions to be explicit either.
